this week's video finds for rhythm and
load drills competing for the best
hitting drill of the year preparing to
swing in a smooth rhythmic manner is
another key to good hitting inadequate
or miss time preparation of the bat or
stride is all it takes to throw off a
hitters timing no matter how good their
swing is a couple of outstanding rhythm
and load drills did not make the sweet
16 the first beginning the bat out of
good hitting position before loading it
to correct hitting position proved too
risky for young hitters to pull off and
is only for advanced hitters the second
drill left out is the knee tuck drill
which is a great way to prepare to hit
and used by many major league hitters
however it did not make the field of 16
because of the difficulty of maintaining
good timing in this manner it's on to
the four finalists in the rhythm and
load bracket the number four drill the
hop forward hop back stride row which
forces hitters to get a weight shift is
sent home by the happy gilmore drill
which develops a preparation but also an
aggressiveness for hitting notice how
hitters begin deep in the batter's box
and take their bat off their shoulder
after walking forward with their rear
leg going behind their front one as
players begin to get a feel for the
timing of taking the bat back as their
stride foot moves forward they begin
this move with an aggressive hop forward
in the same manner in a minor upset the
three seed the roll back hop back drill
beats out the fake bunt drill both of
these great drills have hitters shifting
their weight and hands back to hitting
position in preparation before swinging
the finals was the usual tough battle
especially because kids love doing the
happy gilmore drill but ultimately the
three seed the roll back hot back drill
wins out because it has hit or set the
bat into outstanding hitting position
before shifting their way to their rear
leg setting the bat into a hundred
percent correct hitting position is a
mandatory key to hitting success in this
drill allows players to
sure of this before swinging next week
the last entrant into the final four
field will be chosen out of the compact
swing development bracket this should be
tight as there are some great hitting
drills entered into this category